documentation added for pipelines (#2793)
weaveworks/weave-gitops: website/docs/enterprise/pipelines/getting-started.mdx

---
title: Getting started
sidebar_position: 1
hide_title: true
---

import TierLabel from "../../_components/TierLabel";

import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock";
import BrowserOnly from "@docusaurus/BrowserOnly";

# Getting started with pipelines <TierLabel tiers="enterprise" />

## Requirements

> - You have configured Weave Gitops Enterprise [RBAC for pipelines](../authorization)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have configured Weave GitOps Enterprise [RBAC for pipelines](../authorization)
```

## Define a pipeline

A pipeline allows you to define the route your application is taking in order to make it to production.
There are three main concepts playing in a pipeline:
- the `application` to deliver
- the `environments` that your app will go through in its way to production (general)
- the `deployment targets` or the clusters that each environment has

> In weave gitops you could define a delivery pipeline using a `Pipeline` Custom Resource Definitions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define a delivery pipeline using a `Pipeline` custom resource.
```

An example of how it looks for an application `podinfo` is shown below.

```yaml
apiVersion: pipelines.weave.works/v1alpha1
kind: Pipeline
metadata:
  name: podinfo-02
  namespace: default
spec:
  appRef:
    apiVersion: helm.toolkit.fluxcd.io/v2beta1
    kind: HelmRelease
    name: podinfo
  environments:
    - name: dev
      targets:
        - namespace: podinfo-02-dev
          clusterRef:
            kind: GitopsCluster
            name: dev
            namespace: flux-system
    - name: test
      targets:
        - namespace: podinfo-02-qa
          clusterRef:
            kind: GitopsCluster
            name: dev
            namespace: flux-system
        - namespace: podinfo-02-perf
          clusterRef:
            kind: GitopsCluster
            name: dev
            namespace: flux-system
    - name: prod
      targets:
        - namespace: podinfo-02-prod
          clusterRef:
            kind: GitopsCluster
            name: prod
            namespace: flux-system
```

> In the previous example, `podinfo` application is delivered to a traditional pipeline composed by `dev`, `qa`, (`perf`) and `production` environments.

Reviewer: Not sure why `perf` needs to be wrapped in round brackets.

Author: remove the wrapping

Each environment is backed by a `GitopsCluster` [deployment target](../../../cluster-management/managing-existing-clusters/).

For more details about the spec of a pipeline [see here](spec/v1alpha1/pipeline.mdx)

> ## View pipeline list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View the list of pipelines
```

> Once flux has created your pipeline you could navigate to the pipelines view to see it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once flux has created your pipeline you can navigate to the pipelines view to see it.
```

![view pipelines](img/view-pipelines.png)

> Pipeline list view show the list of pipeline you have access to. For each pipeline, a simplified view of the pipeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pipeline list view show the list of pipelines you have access to. For each pipeline, a simplified view of the pipeline
```

is shown with the application `Type` and `Environments` it goes through.

> ## View a pipeline details

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View the details of a pipeline
```

Once you have selected a pipeline from the list, you will navigate to its details view.

> In pipeline details view you could view the current status of your application by environment and deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In pipeline details view you can view the current status of your application by environment and deployment
```
